Docker Interview Questions


1.	What is Docker?
Docker is open source centralize platform for shipping, developing and run applications. Docker enable you to separate your application from infrastructure so you can deliver software quickly. Docker component such as Docker client, Docker server, Docker machine, Docker hub, Docker compose.

2.	What is Container?
Container is light-weight package of your application code with specific version of programming language and libraries to run software services.

3.	What is Docker-image?
Docker image is template of docker container, and it is very similar to snapshot of image. Single image can be contained multiple containers for different environment. 

4.	What is Docker Registry?
Docker’s registry is called Docker hub, which allows you to store images privately or publicly. In Docker hub, you can store millions of images. Public registry and private registry.

5.	What is Docker File?
Docker file is text-document that contains all the commands could call the command line to assemble image. It consists of set of instruction and followed by arguments. 

6.	What command you should see all running containers?
CMD: docker ps -a

7.	What is command used to stop the container?
CMD: docker stop container-name

8.	What command to run image as container?
CMD: docker run -d  -it  --name <container-name>  image-name

9.	What is Docker network and types?
Docker networking allows you to attach a container to as many networks as you like.
Bridge  It is default driver for the container and used to communicate with outside docker inside docker, another container.
Host  Used for when don’t need network drive between host and container.
None  Disable all network.

10.	What are the states of docker container?
Running  Running stage
Restart  To stop docker container
Pause  To pause the container              Exit  Exit stage
11.	How can you monitor docker in production environment?
Docker states and Docker Events are used to monitoring docker in the production environment.

12.	What is Docker client and Docker daemon and Docker host?
Docker client  Docker client uses commands and REST API to communicate with docker server. Docker pull, docker push, docker run, docker build
Docker daemon  Runs in docker host operating system that is responsible for running container and managing docker services.
Docker-Host Docker host is providing environment to run applications. It contains docker daemon, container, images, network, storage.

13.	What are the commands important in Docker environment?
docker pull--> Download image
docker push --> upload image to registry
docker run --> To create container from docker image
docker exec --> To login container
docker images --> Show docker images in local hub

14.	How does communicate between Docker-daemon and docker client?
To communicate through Socket.IO, REST API, TCP

15.	What is Docker volume?
Docker volume is file systems are mounted on container to prepare data generated by running container. This allows user to backup and share the data between containers.
Bind  To connect external storage device which means outside docker area.
Volume  To mount file system within docker area.
Tmfs  To default connect to container memory. It is temporary file system.

16.	Where docker volume is stored?
/var/lib/docker/volume

17.	What does the command push new image to docker registry?
CMD: docker push image-name

18.	What are the commands to control the docker with system?
systemctl start/stop docker

19.	Can you lose data after exits container?
No, any data that your application writes to disk get stored in container. The file system for the contain persists even after the container halts.

20.	What is docker trust registry?
Docker Trusted Registry (DTR) is the enterprise-grade image storage solution from Docker. You install it behind your firewall so that you can securely store and manage the Docker images you use in your applications.

21.	What is Docker Namespace?
Docker uses a technology called namespaces to provide the isolated workspace called the container. When you run a container, Docker creates a set of namespaces for that container. These namespaces provide a layer of isolation.

22.	What is Docker-swarm?
A Docker Swarm is a group of either physical or virtual machines that are running the Docker application and that have been configured to join in a cluster. The activities of the cluster are controlled by a swarm manager, and machines that have joined the cluster are referred to as nodes.

23.	What is Docker-Compose?
Docker compose is tool to help to run multiple containers in single file and that compose file created by YAML or JSON file.

24.	How does use JSON instead of YAML file in compose?
docker-compose -f docker-compose.json up




